Breadcrumb
Frontpage
Words and concepts
Tests equivalent to or higher than the Danish language test 3
Below is a list of Danish language tests that are equivalent to or higher than the Danish language test 3.
List of Danish language tests that are equivalent to or higher than the Danish language test 3:
Danish language test 3 (Prøve i Dansk 3) with a grade average of at least 6 (on the Danish 13 point grading scale) or 02 (on the Danish 7 point grading scale).
The study test called studieprøven with a grade average of at least 6 (on the Danish 13 point grading scale) or 02 (on the Danish 7 point grading scale) in each of the tests.
9th or 10th grade final exams with a grade average of at least 6 (on the Danish 13 point grading scale) or 02 (on the Danish 7 point grading scale) in the Danish disciplines, except for conduct. If you completed the 9th grade final exams after May 2018, the Danish Immigration Service uses a weighted average of the marks for the written Danish examination. Spelling accounts for 25%, reading for 25%, and written composition for 50%. The overall average mark for the Danish examination is calculated as the average of the written and oral examination marks.
Proof of passed Danish ‘gymnasium’ final exams (STX, HF, HHX, HTX) or a minimum requirement for entrance exam in connection with a vocational program (eux).
Proof of passed General Preparatory Examination (almen forberedelsesekamen – avu).
Test diploma for passed single subjects in Danish or Danish as a second language with a passed test in at least one Danish discipline/subject area between the levels G-A and with a grade average of at least 6 (on the Danish 13 point grading scale) or 02 (on the Danish 7 point grading scale) from e.g. one of the following educations: stx, hf, hhx, htx, eux, eud or avu.
Passed Danish level 4 FVU (before 1 August 2020: FVU-reading level 4).
Proof of passed International Baccalaureate (IB) with Danish on an A or B level.
Proof of having passed a higher educational program at a university, university college (e.g. business school, nursing college or teacher training college) etc., unless the program was not taken in Danish
Previous tests which still qualify
Passed Almenprøve 2, taken at a language centre, with an average grade of at least 6.
Danskprøve 2, taken at a language centre, (known as Studieprøven from 2002).
The Danish language test 3 at the study school in Copenhagen, the study school in Odense or Århus Kommunes Sprogcenter.
Passed Profiltest, taken at a language centre, with an average grade of at least 3..
Erhvervsforberedende prøve (ERH), taken at a language centre, passed with an average grade of at least 6 or B.
Voksenuddannelsesforberedende prøve (VUF), taken at a language centre, passed with an average grade of at least 6 or B.
Passed Danish as a second language, level 1, Dansk level 1 or Dansk level 2 as part of an avu programme with an average grade of at least 6 (on the Danish 13 point grading scale) or 02 (on the Danish 7 point grading scale)
Social and health care helper education, the pedagogical basis education (pgu), social and healt care assistant education passed with an average grade of at least 6 (on the Danish 13 point grading scale) or 02 (on the Danish 7 point grading scale).
Send link
Last updated 07-07-2026 - Published by: The Danish Immigration Service
